README.md, before:

# ML-Learners - Prediction of BUY or SELL signals

## Overview of the Analysis:
The idea of this project is to come up with the prediction of BUY or SELL signals for two particlar stocks `Amazon` and `Tesla` with the help of machine learning. The reason for choosing these two stocks were to see the model's performance for highly volatile stock like Tesla and for comparatively stable stock like Amazon. 
Based on the Twitter sentimatal score merged with historical prices of each company compared to S&P 500 (Index), we tried to prdict the signal of `Long Buy` or `Short Sell`.

The models we used to conduct our analysis:

- Support Vector Machine (SVM)
- Logistic Regression
- Decision Tree

---

## Data Sources:

- Historical prices of both teh stock from yahoo.finance
- Twitter Sentiment score from Kaggle 
- Market Sentiment score from survey of AAII.com

---

## Technologies:

It supports Python 3.7 and has been constructed using google colab and jupyter lab

Additionally, the following packages/libraries are used to run the analysis:

- [pandas](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/) - for analyzing data
- [numpy](https://pypi.org/project/numpy/) - for numerical operations
- [hvplot](https://pypi.org/project/hvplot/) - for visualizing data
- [holoviews](https://pypi.org/project/holoviews/) - for data analysis and visualization seamless and simple
- [sklearn](https://pypi.org/project/sklearn/) - for building machine learning models
- [nltk](https://pypi.org/project/nltk/) - for data preprocessing
- [vaderSentiment](https://pypi.org/project/vaderSentiment/3.1.1/) - for analysis of sentiments expressed in social media

---

## Installation Guide:

Before running the application first install the following dependencies:

```
  pip install pandas 
  pip install numpy
  pip install hvplot
  pip install holoviews
  pip install sklearn
  pip install nltk
  pip install matplotlib
```

---

## Stages of Machine Learning:
1. Data Collection & data processing
2. Choosing a models to work on along with simple moving averages - Support Vector Machine (SVM), Logistic Regression, Decision Tree
3. Training data: using the model, fitting the trained data
4. Prediction: using trained model to predict the signals of buy or sell 
5. Evaluation: evaluating model's performance by doing the following:
   - Calculate the accuracy score of the model
   - Generate classification report
   - Plotting returns to see the graph
6. Train, Test & Evaluate the model's performance 

---

## Summary:

The models are evaluated using accuracy, precision, and recall.

### TESLA Analysis:


- Support Vector Machine (SVM)

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TESLA_SVM.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_SVM_dailyreturns.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_SVM_cumreturn.png)


- Logistic Regression

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_1.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_2.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_3.png)

        Insights: The SVM model was better at predicting up-days with a 0.96 Recall. Referring to the above classification report, when the SVM model predicted a short sale, it was correct 57% of the time, which led to strong performance. Using logistic regression, Tesla down days were identified 96% of the time, however the model overestimated the number of days to sell short, resulting in an impairment of capital.
        

- Decision Tree

        Inputs(X):
        Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
        SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 10 days
        Twitter Sentiment Score – csv file from kaggle


    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_DT_1.png)

    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_DT.png)

        Insights: For TSLA, the optimal can be achieved if we go for cash hold instead of short sell. Decision Tree model provides ‘long buy’ strategy.


### AMAZON Analysis:


- Support Vector Machine (SVM)

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_1.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_2.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_3.png)


- Logistic Regression

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_1.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_2.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_3.png)

        Insights: The SVM model was better at predicting up-days with a 0.91 Recall. The SVM model did not perform as well as the model was poor at identifying short sale opportunities. The logistic regression model generated strong performance with Amazon as it was 50% successful at identifying short sale days while still managing strong overall accuracy of 53%.


- Decision Tree
       
       Inputs(X):
       Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
       SMA (Short and Long) – 7 and 25 days
       Twitter Sentiment Score – csv file from kaggle


    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_DT_1.png)

    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/Amzn_DT.png)

  
      Insights: The model performs better for AMZN stock in comparison to TSLA. Decision Tree model provides ‘long buy’ strategy.

---


## Future Scope:

- Idea of finding a way to predict the buy or sell signal at present date
- For further model evaluation, we can calculate biased prediction using the lime library
- Alpaca order or experiment with Amazon Lex for building a Trading Bot

---

## Contributors
 
Team Leader:

- Matt Wojichowski 
  Email : mwojichowski@gmail.com <br>
  LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/matt-wojichowski-cfa-caia-93a34a42/

Team Members:

- Tasnim Morbiwala
  Email : tasnim.morbiwala@gmail.com <br> 
  LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/tasnim-morbiwala-58a4599/
  
- Rupika Ranjan Babu  
  Email : rupika10@gmail.com <br> 
  LinkedIn : [https://www.linkedin.com/in/rupika-r-125616a8/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rupika-r-125616a8/)
  
- Summi Khanna  
  Email : sam.summo2812@gmail.com <br>
  LinkedIn : [https://www.linkedin.com/in/summi-khanna-004a60187/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/summi-khanna-004a60187/)

---

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Summi Khanna, Matt Wojichowski, Tasnim Morbiwala, Rupika Ranjan Babu

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---

Commit message:

Updating README with updated images and twitter scores

README.md, after:

# ML-Learners - Prediction of BUY or SELL signals

## Overview of the Analysis:
The idea of this project is to come up with the prediction of BUY or SELL signals for two particlar stocks `Amazon` and `Tesla` with the help of machine learning. The reason for choosing these two stocks were to see the model's performance for highly volatile stock like Tesla and for comparatively stable stock like Amazon. 
Based on the Twitter sentimatal score merged with historical prices of each company compared to S&P 500 (Index), we tried to prdict the signal of `Long Buy` or `Short Sell`.

The models we used to conduct our analysis:

- Support Vector Machine (SVM)
- Logistic Regression
- Decision Tree

---

## Data Sources:

- Historical prices of both teh stock from yahoo.finance
- Twitter Sentiment score from Kaggle 
- Market Sentiment score from survey of AAII.com

---

## Technologies:

It supports Python 3.7 and has been constructed using google colab and jupyter lab

Additionally, the following packages/libraries are used to run the analysis:

- [pandas](https://pypi.org/project/pandas/) - for analyzing data
- [numpy](https://pypi.org/project/numpy/) - for numerical operations
- [hvplot](https://pypi.org/project/hvplot/) - for visualizing data
- [holoviews](https://pypi.org/project/holoviews/) - for data analysis and visualization seamless and simple
- [sklearn](https://pypi.org/project/sklearn/) - for building machine learning models
- [nltk](https://pypi.org/project/nltk/) - for data preprocessing
- [vaderSentiment](https://pypi.org/project/vaderSentiment/3.1.1/) - for analysis of sentiments expressed in social media
- [graphviz](https://graphviz.org/about/) - for visualizing Decision Tree models in a graphical layout.

---

## Installation Guide:

Before running the application first install the following dependencies:

```
  pip install pandas 
  pip install numpy
  pip install hvplot
  pip install holoviews
  pip install sklearn
  pip install nltk
  pip install matplotlib
  pip install graphviz
```

---

## Stages of Machine Learning:
1. Data Collection & data processing
2. Calculating Twitter scores from twitter data.
2. Choosing a models to work on along with simple moving averages - Support Vector Machine (SVM), Logistic Regression, Decision Tree
3. Training data: using the model, fitting the trained data
4. Prediction: using trained model to predict the signals of buy or sell 
5. Evaluation: evaluating model's performance by doing the following:
   - Calculate the accuracy score of the model
   - Generate classification report
   - Plotting returns to see the graph
6. Train, Test & Evaluate the model's performance 

---

## Twitter Data Processing and Twitter Sentimental Score Calculation

1) Cleaning the text: remove the special characters, numbers from the text
2) Tokenization: process of breaking the text into smaller pieces called Tokens
3) Enrichment - POS tagging: process of converting each token into a tuple having the form (word, tag)
4) Stopwords removal: remove stopwords that carry very little information
5) Obtaining the stem words: A stem is a part of a word responsible for its lexical meaning (Lemma)
6) Calculating VADER Sentiment Scores for the stem words.

---

## Summary:

The models are evaluated using accuracy, precision, and recall.

### TESLA Analysis:


- Support Vector Machine (SVM)

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TESLA_SVM.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_SVM_dailyreturns.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_SVM_cumreturn.png)


- Logistic Regression

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_1.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_2.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_LR_3.png)

        Insights: The SVM model was better at predicting up-days with a 0.96 Recall. Referring to the above classification report, when the SVM model predicted a short sale, it was correct 57% of the time, which led to strong performance. Using logistic regression, Tesla down days were identified 96% of the time, however the model overestimated the number of days to sell short, resulting in an impairment of capital.
        

- Decision Tree

        Inputs(X):
        Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
        SMA (Short and Long) – 7 and 20 days
        Twitter Sentiment Score – csv file from kaggle


    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_DT_1.png)

    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/TSLA_DT.png)

        Insights: For TSLA, the optimal can be achieved if we go for cash hold instead of short sell. Decision Tree model provides ‘long buy’ strategy.


### AMAZON Analysis:


- Support Vector Machine (SVM)

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_1.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_2.png)

    ![model1](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_SVM_3.png)


- Logistic Regression

      Inputs(X):
      Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
      SMA (Short and Long) – 5 and 20 days
      Bollinger Bands - 20 days

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_1.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_2.png)

    ![model2](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_LR_3.png)

        Insights: The SVM model was better at predicting up-days with a 0.91 Recall. The SVM model did not perform as well as the model was poor at identifying short sale opportunities. The logistic regression model generated strong performance with Amazon as it was 50% successful at identifying short sale days while still managing strong overall accuracy of 53%.


- Decision Tree
       
       Inputs(X):
       Market Sentiment – The percentage of investors which feel bullish during a given week (AAII survey)
       SMA (Short and Long) – 7 and 25 days
       Twitter Sentiment Score – csv file from kaggle


    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/AMZN_DT_1.png)

    ![model3](https://github.com/Summi-Khanna/ML-Learners/blob/main/Images/Amzn_DT.png)

  
      Insights: The model performs better for AMZN stock in comparison to TSLA. Decision Tree model provides ‘long buy’ strategy.

---


## Future Scope:

- Idea of finding a way to predict the buy or sell signal at present date
- For further model evaluation, we can calculate biased prediction using the lime library
- Alpaca order or experiment with Amazon Lex for building a Trading Bot

---

## Contributors
 
Team Leader:

- Matt Wojichowski 
  Email : mwojichowski@gmail.com <br>
  LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/matt-wojichowski-cfa-caia-93a34a42/

Team Members:

- Tasnim Morbiwala
  Email : tasnim.morbiwala@gmail.com <br> 
  LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/tasnim-morbiwala-58a4599/
  
- Rupika Ranjan Babu  
  Email : rupika10@gmail.com <br> 
  LinkedIn : [https://www.linkedin.com/in/rupika-r-125616a8/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rupika-r-125616a8/)
  
- Summi Khanna  
  Email : sam.summo2812@gmail.com <br>
  LinkedIn : [https://www.linkedin.com/in/summi-khanna-004a60187/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/summi-khanna-004a60187/)

---

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Summi Khanna, Matt Wojichowski, Tasnim Morbiwala, Rupika Ranjan Babu

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---
